In this demo we're going to take a look at defining IAM policy per user.
And what we're looking at is a brand new account.
So this is the new account for the developers for Wired Brain Coffee and
they've logged on and are logged on as the root account.
They don't want to stay there, that's just the root account,
so they want to add some users so they're going to start off by
adding their first user that will be an administrator.
So clicking Add user we have to put in a username.
So let's add in a user called admin.
Now note we can add multiple users and it's going to take us
along a timeline of adding in details, permissions,
review, and then we'll be done.
So what sort of access do I want to give this user?
Well they're going to be an administrator,
so I would expect that I would want to give them access to the console.
And I also might want to do some work from the command line interface.
I want both types of access.
Now when I do access for command line SDK then I have an access
key ID and secret access key versus the console,
which says just a password.
Now what kind of password?
Well, custom password.
So let's now look at permissions.
So what do I want to do, add a user to a group,
copy permissions from the existing user,
attach existing policies directly?
So I've got some options.
Well I don't have any groups created.
I don't have any other users, as mentioned,
so let's scroll down and say well we'll just continue for now.
Now notice before I create the user,
there is one policy attached and that is the policy that
allows this IAM user to change their password.
That's certainly what I want them to be able to do,
but note that's all this user will be able to do.
So let's create the user and then we'll have to go about adding
in additional policy for this administrator.
Now there's a couple of important concepts on this page,
number one, there's a link for anybody that's using IAM to use to log on,
and that's this link right here.
We also have the ability of looking at the secret access key.
So if I click Show, it will show me the secret access key.
And I can also email the log on instructions,
a couple of handy options, we also have the download of the csv.
Well what's in the csv?
Let's take a look.
So let's save the credentials file.
So we see three components, the access key,
the secret access key, and the console login link.
So this is information that if I want it,
I have to download it at the time I create the user because
it's not going to be available again.
So it's a good idea to save that information.
Alright we've got our user,
let's click the user and we can see what has been set up.
Change password, managed policy; the groups,
none; security credentials, what I can do,
the link.
Now note what is not here is the secret access key.
So remember in the spreadsheet is the secret access key.
If I didn't download it, I'm not getting it again.
The next tab is the access advisor.
The access advisor can be handy because it gives me detail
about the permissions that were granted to this user and when
the services were last accessed.
I don't have anything going on, I haven't logged on as this user yet.
But we're going to, we'll test out this user,
but we have to give the user enough permissions.
So back to permissions, I could add permissions here and grant permissions,
or I could create a group.
So let's go ahead and create a group and the group name,
we'll call it wiredadmin.
So we've created a group, let's go to the properties of this group.
There's no users, let's add some users to the group.
Good to go.
The permissions for this group, now we can take a look at adding policy,
let's attach a policy.
So what do I want this user to be able to do?
EC2 full access?
Note there is a number of prebuilt managed policies,
so we have a number of policies, if I select policy Type,
I can then drill down and say well let's look at job function,
Administrator Access, NetworkAdministrator access,
SystemAdministrator.
So they're trying to make this easy for us.
Since this is an administrator of the account I
certainly want administrator access.
I want to do network administration.
That looks like enough to start.
Let's click Attach Policy.
So I have two policies.
I can add up to 10.
So I have a user in a group and that user has a number of policies.
They have a policy to change the password and they have
administrative and network access.
So let's go back to users,
now we can see the policies have been added to that user
because he's a member of the group.
Which group?
The wiredadmin group.
So we're making a good start.
How could I make this better?
I could activate MFA on the root account.
I could also activate this on all accounts if I wanted to.
I should also apply an IAM password policy.
We'll leave that for another demo,
but that's certainly something in the real world that we should do.
So let's copy this link and we will paste it in,
user name - admin, password - I can't tell you,
top secret and all.
Logging in for the first time, what's my old password,
entering the new password.
I'm in, I'm an administrator,
probably the next thing I should do is add another backup
administrator to that group and then move ahead.
So that's a look at defining IAM policy per user, but note that we didn't stop there, we added the user to a group.